# Standard Bio 
# (Daniel) "Dazza" Greenwood, JD

Dazza Greenwood is an entrepreneur, innovator and national thought on design and deployment of large scale, trusted distributed systems.  Dazza heads the digital systems design firm CIVICS.com, which he founded in 1996.  At MIT,  Dazza lecturers and conducts R&D on big data, digital identity federation, personal data sharing and is developing the field of computational law and jurimetrics through law.MIT.edu at the MIT Media Lab and Connection Science. Privately, Dazza provides professional consultancy services to industry, government and civic organizations, including fortune 50 companies, national governments, and marketplaces through CIVICS.com.  Dazza has catalyzed or led numerous industry, governmental and public-private initiatives aimed at developing innovative legal solutions, technical standards and business models.  

Currently Dazza is prototyping Trust Network systems model and reference implementations for rules based and user-centered identity and personal data sharing.  Dazza is also facilitating a new national consensus on publishing public law as free open data in standard formats that are human readable, machine readable and lawyer readable.  Dazza is developing a large-scale online "hackathon" collaborative platform and service enabling distributed networks of individuals, teams and multi-venue events to form around innovative projects, shared interests and competitive challenges.  Dazza is also advancing modernization of law through development of new business models, innovative solutions for contract and regulatory automation and testing new methods to write, apply and measure law and regulation as computational data sciences.  


## More Detailed Version

“Dazza” Greenwood heads CIVICS.com, a boutique provider of professional consultancy services. Engagements are tailored to purpose and leverage innovative solutions for digital identity, data strategy and technology policy. At MIT Dazza has held academic appointments as Visiting Scholar, Lecturer and (currently) Scientist. At the MIT Media Lab Dazza focuses on law, technology and innovation with emphasis on big data, identity federation, personal data sharing and systems design shared publicly through the law.MIT.edu. Dazza consults to fortune 100 companies, including the insurance industry and financial services sector, architecting the creation of trust networks. As an attorney, Dazza served as both general and special counsel for technology law, representing corporations and governments and as intellectual property litigation expert.

Federally, Dazza has testified several times on eCommerce before the US House and US Senate and other legislatures and has consulted to NASA as an Online Identity expert, GSA as a multilateral rules drafting expert, Homeland Security as a multistate federated governance expert, the UK Cabinet Office GDS facilitating and authoring identity federation rules and many other public and private sector organizations.

Dazza was elected as Vice Chair of the Identity Ecosystem Steering Group’s Plenary, which is developing a framework for federated identity and privacy at the international level, implementing NSTIC. Dazza Chairs the Forum on Law of Identity and Personal Data of the ID Commons. Dazza chaired the eContracts Committee of OASIS/LegalXML, which approved and published the Technical Committee Specification for eContracts in 2007.

Dazza served as an arbitrator under the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), where he arbitrated Internet domain name and trademark disputes. Mr. Greenwood has successfully mediated several domain name and other disputes. Mr Greenwood created legal processes for online mediation used by eBay and other online dispute resolution providers, crafted the first crowd-sourced dispute resolution process and vice chaired of the OASIS Online Dispute Resolution technical specifications committee.
